# Panda-Lang Compiler

Panda-Lang Compiler is a compiler for the Panda-Lang programming language.The Panda-Lang Compiler translates source code written in Panda-Lang into x86 assembly language. It consists of a tokenizer, parser, and code generator.

## Tokenization, Parsing, and Code Generation

### Tokenization

The Tokenizer processes the source code and generates tokens representing various elements such as keywords, identifiers, literals, and operators.

### Parsing

The Parser takes the tokens generated by the Tokenizer and constructs an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) representing the structure of the program.

### Code Generation

The Code Generator traverses the AST and generates corresponding assembly code in x86 format for each statement and expression in the program.

## Grammar

The grammar for Panda-Lang is as follows:

```markdown
[Prog]   ==> [Stmt]*

[Stmt]  ==> exit([Expr]);
        ==> let ident = [Expr];
        ==> ident = [Expr];
        ==> if([Expr])[Scope][IfPred] 
        ==> [Scope]
        ==> print([String]);
        
[String] ==> " .... "

[Expr]   ==> [Term]
         ==> [NodeBinExpr]

[Scope]  ==> {[Stmts]*}  

[IfPred] ==> elif([Expr])[Scope][IfPred]
         ==> else[Scope] 
         ==> ε

[NodeBinExpr] ==> [Expr] + [Expr] ; (prec = 0)
              ==> [Expr] - [Expr] ; (prec = 0)
              ==> [Expr] * [Expr] ; (prec = 1)
              ==> [Expr] / [Expr] ; (prec = 1)
              
[Term]   ==> int_lit
         ==> ident

```

## Structure

The project structure is as follows:

- `arena.hpp`: Header file for memory management.
- `compilerLib.h`: Header file containing common libraries and definitions.
- `generator.hpp`: Header file for the code generator.
- `main.cpp`: Main entry point for the compiler.
- `parser.hpp`: Header file for the parser.
- `tokenizer.hpp`: Header file for the tokenizer.
- `tokens_to_asm.cpp`: File containing functions to convert tokens to assembly code.
- `grammar.txt`: This contains Grammar for our Programming language , which is needed for parsing
- `test.pd`: This is input panda file where our code to be executed will be written 

## Test Input File

An example test input file (`test.pd`) for Panda-Lang:

```panda
let x = (10 - 2 * 3) / 2;

if (0) {
    x = 1;
    print("1");
}
elif (0) {
    x = 2;
    print("2");
}
else {
    x = 3;
    print("3");
}

exit(x + 1);
```

## How to Use

### Prerequisites

Before running the Panda-Lang Compiler, ensure you have the following installed:

- C++ compiler (e.g., g++)
- NASM (Netwide Assembler)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Vipsy-123/Panda-Lang.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project build directory:
   ```bash
    cd Panda-Lang/build
   ```
3. Compile the compiler:
   ```bash
    make
   ```
4. Run the compiler for your Panda program:
    ```bash
      ./panda ../test.pd
    ```
5. Execute the compiled program:
    ```bash
      ./out
    ```
